Hi, this is Joshua Wright.
In this video we'll look through some of the directions
to access and make the most of the Lab Wiki system.
In this course you've received a printed workbook
that has all of the lab directions
for everything that we're going to do in the course.
You also have access to these same directions
in the form of what we call the Lab Wiki,
which is the default home page on both the Linux
and the Windows virtual machine web browsers.
I'm going to first start with the Linux virtual machine,
I already have that started here.
I'm going to full screen my browser window.
And then I'm going to open
the Firefox browser on the desktop.
You'll see that when you open the browser
it defaults to the home page which is the Lab Wiki,
with all of the directions,
and the same content that's used
to make the printed workbook.
There are some extra features here
such as easy navigation to the different lab exercises.
The hamburger menu here can hide or open
that navigation menu as needed.
There's also a search feature
where you can type in any string,
and it will show you matching lab exercises
that include that keyword.
And then we have this home page,
which shows you the beginning directions, conventions,
and the latest version with a datestamp down here
for the version of the lab instructions
that you're looking at.
And one of the benefits of having this electronic
is that you can move the browser window
to the side of your screen
so you can look at it while you work on
the lab exercise steps.
You can also update the lab exercise steps
by running the update-wiki command shown here.
When prompted enter the sec504 user password, sec504.
The virtual machine will go out,
download the latest lab files
with any typos, or new lab directions that we've added,
and then complete and obtain the latest lab directions.
Now after your instructor's advice,
he or she may also tell you to run update-labs.
That will make changes to the virtual machine
but you don't need to do that
unless advised by your instructor.
Similar commands are available
on the Windows virtual machine as well.
Again here if I open the default web browser
which is Google Chrome,
the home page will show you all of the lab directions
with the same content and the same features.
Down here we see the version for the lab exercises.
I'm going to just move this off
to the right-hand side of my screen,
and from Windows we can download the latest content as well.
Here we see the command is slightly different,
it's update-wiki.ps1.
So I'm going to open a PowerShell prompt
as an administrator, right-clicking on the PowerShell icon,
and then choosing Run as administrator,
and from the PowerShell prompt
I'm going to run update-wiki.ps1.
Like the Linux VM, the Windows VM will go online
and download the latest lab content.
You may be prompted if you want your machine
to be discoverable.
I'm gonna say no there.
And after a couple of seconds
you'll have the latest lab content delivered
to the Windows virtual machine as well.
Again your instructor may advise you
to run the update-labs.ps1 script as well,
which will download and make any changes necessary
for their virtual machine to improve lab exercises
or to troubleshoot or fix any bugs that we experience.
You don't need to run this command
unless you're advised to by your instructor.
That's it with those simple commands
you'll have the latest lab exercise content
as you work through the lab exercises.
If I refresh my browser
you'll see that the version has changed,
indicating that we have the latest version
of the lab exercise steps.
You can update the wiki as often as desired.
Generally following the advice of your instructor
or if you've worked on lab exercises
and you may have encountered a bug, or a typo,
or possibly, are looking for clarification.
You can run update-wiki
to obtain the very latest information
as we continue to refine and improve the lab directions.
That's it for this video set, nice work!